
The "Getting Started" section of the help pages presents an introduction to
visualizing group theory with *Group Explorer.*  After reading these pages,
you're encouraged to either start playing with the software on your own or
use [the Tutorials](tu-index.md) to continue the guided tour.

## What illustrations can you do in group theory?

Group theory is a subject that has historically had very few pictures, and
when it did (such as wallpaper groups or polyhedra) they served only to
exemplify a few select groups, and indirectly. Thus it was possible for a
student to have a year or more of abstract algebra without ever picturing
the subject in his or her head! This is a loss for any group theory student,
and is a particular roadblock to visual learners.

Since about 2004, there have been a growing number of resources for learning
group theory in a more visual way.  *Group Explorer* is one of them.  It
provides interactive visualizations for group theory and is designed to be
an aid for building intuition and understanding for students as they learn.
But it may also offer some new intuitions for those seasoned in algebra as
well.  A brief overview of its features are given below.

## Multiplication tables (or Cayley tables)

These are a common introduction point for new students into binary
operations and groups.  *Group Explorer* allows users to view them,
highlight them, compare them, draw homomorphisms between them, take
quotients of them, and more.

 * [See an example multiplication table here](http://nathancarter.github.io/group-explorer/Multtable.html?groupURL=groups/S_3.group)
 * [Read more about multiplication tables here](gs-mt-intro.md)

CITE(VGT-4.3 MM-1.5 DE-5.3)

## Cayley diagrams

These are a less common but more potent group visualization tool and are the
flagship intuition-building device used in *Group Explorer.*  Cayley
diagrams expose the structure of a group and the relationships between its
elements and generators.  These, too, can be viewed, highlighted, connected
by homomorphisms, etc.

 * [See an example Cayley diagram here](http://nathancarter.github.io/group-explorer/CayleyDiagram.html?groupURL=groups/S_3.group)
 * [Read more about Cayley diagrams here](gs-cd-intro.md)

CITE(VGT-2.4 MM-1.2 DE-3)

## Other visualization techniques

Symmetry objects are very common and cycle graphs are very rare, but both are also integrated in *Group Explorer.*

 * [See an example object of symmetry here](http://nathancarter.github.io/group-explorer/SymmetryObject.html?groupURL=groups/S_3.group)
 * [See an example cycle graph here](http://nathancarter.github.io/group-explorer/CycleDiagram.html?groupURL=groups/S_3.group)

These help pages allow the student to be guided by the software on their
explorations and investigations in group theory.  [*Group Explorer's* group
library](http://nathancarter.github.io/group-explorer/GroupExplorer.html) is
the perfect place to start for building conjectures or finding
counterexamples.

CITE(VGT-3 MM-1.3 TJ-12.2)
