
This page describes how to interact with sheets in *Group Explorer*. If you
are unsure what sheets are, [read the description
here](rf-geterms.md#sheets). A blank sheet window looks something like the
following picture.

![A screenshot of a blank sheet](illustration-blanksheet.png)

Let us consider all the things one can do with a sheet, grouping them
categorically.

## The sheet itself

A blank sheet is shown as a white region, the left side of the window
pictured above. In this region you can add various kinds of "sheet items."
Here is an image of a window containing a sheet with four items: a
multiplication table, some text, a gray background rectangle, and a
connecting line.

![A screenshot of a sheet with four items](illustration-simplesheet.png)

If you wish to experiment with a sheet without creating one, there are links
in each group's [Group Info page](rf-um-groupwindow.md) that will create
sheets for you (e.g. "Show me all the views connected together in a sheet"
link in the Views section).

### Navigating the sheet

Note that resizing the window containing the sheet does not resize the
sheet. By default, all sheets are a fairly large size, so that you should
not need to make them larger.  You can scroll around within the view to see
new regions of the sheet as needed, using your mouse wheel.

### Selecting items

When you click [tap] an item on the sheet, a dotted line border appears
around it to indicate that you have selected it, and some of the buttons
in the right-hand pane may quit being grayed out, indicating they are enabled.

Note that for nonrectangular items (lines and homomorphisms) the area of
their sensitivity to the mouse may be fairly large, to give you ample
opportunity to click them without having to click exactly on a line.

### Moving and resizing items

To move an item from one place to another on the sheet, simply click and
drag it [one-finger drag]. To move an item forward or backwards on the sheet (i.e. farther
into the background, or closer to the foreground), use one of the four
buttons for this purpose in the right-hand pane, "Move forward," "Move to
front," "Move backward", and "Move to back" while the item is selected.

You can resize an item by first selecting it, and then hovering your mouse
over any part of its boundary. Your mouse cursor will shape itself like a
pair of arrows to indicate that resizing is possible. Click and drag to
resize the item. [On touch devices simply touch the item and drag it with
one finger to move it, or pinch it with two fingers to re-size it;
it is not necessary to select it.]

## Saving and loading

The following commands appear in the right-hand pane of the sheet window.

### Save as:

Enter a name for your sheet and click the "Save as:" button to save the
sheet into your browser's memory.  This will persist even when you are not
on the *Group Explorer* website, or indeed even when your computer is off.
(It uses your browser's "local storage.")

### Load sheet:

To load a sheet you've saved in the past, choose its name from the drop-down
menu next to the "Load sheet:" button and then click the button.  Any work
you had on the left of the window will be immediately overwritten by loading
the saved sheet.

## Adding sheet items

### Add rectangle

Click this button to add a solid, gray rectangle to the sheet.  You can, of
course, move and resize the rectangle after it has been placed, including
move it forward or backwards in the sheet, as described above.

Rectangles are useful for visually grouping items on the sheet by placing
the rectangle behind them.  They serve only a visual purpose.

As with all items on a sheet, double-click the rectangle to edit its
properties.  In the case of the rectangle, this includes only its background
color.

### Add text box

Click this button to add a small text box to the sheet containing just the
word "Text."  You can, of course, move the text after it has been placed,
including move it forward or backwards in the sheet, as described above.

Text can be useful for labeling items on the sheet, such as with a caption
or explanation.

As with all items on a sheet, double-click the text to edit its properties.
In the case of text, this includes the text itself, its font size, its
alignment, and its color.

### Add this visualizer:

Before clicking this button, choose from the controls beneath it which kind
of visualizer you would like to add.

 * The left drop-down list presents only three options, Cayley diagrams,
   multiplication tables, and cycle graphs. Objects of symmetry are not
   included because they serve no purpose in sheets, because it is not yet
   supported to connect them to any other items.
 * The right drop-down list presents all groups in the *Group Explorer*
   library, ordered by their number of elements.  Choose which group you would like to
   visualize.

After making these choices and clicking the "Add this visualizer:" button,
a copy of the visualizer you chose will appear at the top left of the sheet.
As with all sheet items, you can move and resize it as needed thereafter.

When you double-click a visualizer to edit its properties, rather than
presenting you a small dialog (as with, say, rectangles or text boxes),
*Group Explorer* opens a new tab in your browser with a large view of the
visualizer.  Changes you make in that large view (such as highlighting
elements or changing the viewpoint on a three-dimensional diagram) will be
reflected immediately in the sheet.  You can close that visualizer tab at
any time; changes you make there are always synced to the sheet.

## Editing controls

### Copy and Paste

Click this button to copy the selected item on the sheet.  You can then use
the paste button to create another instance of the same item immediately on
top of the first one.  Then move it to the location you desire.

### Delete

This removes the selected item from the sheet. The only way to get it back
is to use Undo.

Note that if you delete an item that is connected to another item via a
connecting line or morphism, the connection(s) will also be deleted.

### Undo and Redo

If you make a change to a sheet that you'd then like to undo, click the Undo
button.  As in many applications, you can click Undo multiple times, and
move forward through your changes again with Redo.

## Connections

### Connect to:

To connect one item in a sheet with another by a straight line, follow this
procedure.

 * Click the first item to select it.
 * In the drop-down list next to the "Connect to:" button, choose the item
   you would like to connect it to.
 * Click the "Connect to:" button to make the connection.

You can always delete a connection later by selecting the connection itself
and clicking the Delete button documented above.

Connections are useful for attaching labels to items in a complex sheet, or
showing an intricate network of connections as in a [lattice of
subgroups](rf-groupterms.md#lattice-of-subgroups).

### Map to:

To connect one visualizer in a sheet with another by a homomorphism, follow this procedure.

 * Click to select the visualizer that will be the domain of the
   homomorphism.
 * In the drop-down list next to the "Map to:" button, choose the visualizer
   you would like to be the codomain of the homomorphism.
 * Click the "Map to:" button to create a homomorphism.

Homomorphisms are automatically given names by *Group Explorer* when you
insert them (starting with \(f\) and \(g\), the most common names).  You can
edit the properties of the homomorphism by double-clicking the morphism
itself.  By default, all homomorphisms map their entire domain to the
identity element of the codomain (the zero homomorphism).  To see how to
change this, visit [the help page on editing
homomorphisms](rf-um-morphedit.md).
